These files are used to run the benchmarking of DAGMC when it is a newly 
installed software and when a new version of DAGMC has been made.

This directory comes with the files test_suite, benchmark_results.ods, dagmc_mpi_cae, and 
the cases directory. 

test_suite - runs all of the cases with DAGMC using the .sat geometry
	    	     files.  The script will produce copies of the ref.dag.inp
             for each case (test.inp#) in this directory and then when
             DAGMC is run it will produce the outputs of the runs 
             (test.out#), the mctal files of the runs (test.mctal#),
             and the facetted geom (geom#.h5m) in this directory. This
             script will also produce two other files for each case, 
             difm# and difo#. These are the outputs when the 
             differences between the reference files and the produced
             files for the mctal and output file respectively. If 
             these files are empty, then the DAGMC that was tested 
             matches the DAGMC that has been benchmarked. Note that 
             the size of these files is outputted to the screen at the
             end of the script in the format: 
                case# (# lines in difo#) (# lines in difm#).
             It is important to look at the dif files to see how 
             different the answers are because sometimes the files are
             different just due to rounding or formatting differences.

	       NOTE: a facetting tolerance of 1e-5 is used for all runs
                     unless a ftol.default file is present in the case 
                     directory (see below).

							NOTE: running all test cases takes about 90 minutes with about 
							      half of the time being spent on case 15

benchmark_results.ods - a spreadsheet with all of the results for the 
                        benchmarked cases compared to the results from native
                        MCNP.

dagmc_mpi_cae - a script that test_suite uses to test dagmc in parrellel

The cases directory has the benchmark input and output files of the test cases.
In each case directory there are 8 files and 1 optional file which are 
described below with the case descriptions below that:

FILES:
	README - the description of the problem and any extra notes on the way
                 the problem was tested
	
	DAGMC FILES (ones used to test DAGMC on your machine):
		ref.dag.inp - the MCNP portion of the input for the reference 
                              DAGMC run.
		ref.dag.mctal - the mctal file outputted from the reference 
                                DAGMC run.
		ref.dag.out - the output from the reference DAGMC run.
		ref.geom.h5m - the facet h5m file produced by a reference 
                               DAGMC run.
		ref.geom.sat - the geometry input file used by the reference
                               DAGMC run.
		ftol.default (optional) - if present changes the ftol used for
                                          the case when regression-suite-* is 
                                          ran.
	
	MCNP FILES (supplied for reference and not tested on your machine):
		ref.native.inp - the MCNP input file that is just the MCNP 
                                 version of the same geometry in ref.geom.sat.
		ref.native.out - the MCNP out from this geometry.  Used to show
                                 how close DAGMC is the the answer MCNP gets.

CASES:
	01: Godiva sphere - This is an HEU sphere based on the Godiva benchmark.
                            Calculates keff.
	02: Beam on a plane - A beam is fired at the center of a plane.  A 
                              surface current tally is made on the other side.
	03: Beam along a surface - The beam is fired directly at the 
                                   intersection of two cubes.  A surface current
                                   tally is made on the other side.
	04: Beam along a curve/line - The beam is fired directly at the 
                                     intersection of four cubes, a line segment.
                                     A surface current tally is made on the 
                                     other side.
	05: Beam grazing a cylinder 1 - A beam is fired 0.001 cm within the edge
                                      of an H2O cylinder.  A flux tally on the
                                      cylinder is made.

		NOTE: A faceting tolerance study was done with this case.
		      The default test case uses a faceting tolerance of 1e-5;
		      additional test cases at 1e-6 and 1e-7 are given in the 
		      sub-cases 05a and 05b.  (Run the test suite with the -x
		      flag to run these sub-cases.)

	06: Beam grazing a cylinder 2 - Identical to 05 except the distance 
                                        tolerance is larger.

		NOTE: that the tallies for this case and case 05 are the same.

	07: Two fissile spheres in a vacuum 1 -  Calculates keff.
	08: Two fissile spheres in a vacuum 2 -  Calculates keff, uses implicit
                                                 complement.  There currently is
                                                 a statistically significant 
                                                 difference in keff if run 
                                                 sufficiently long.
	09: Thin spherical shell - Thermal neutron beam originating at the 
                                   center of a void region (implicit complement)
                                   upon a three layered H20 sphere with layers 
                                   0.001 cm thick each.  Surface current tally 
                                   on the reflected side.  Note that it 
                                   currently has two lost particles and a high
                                   run time.
	10: Beams on a plane - Five beams (axis in the z-direction) are fired at
                               the center of a disk with mu = 1, 0.98058, 
                               0.92848, 0.85749, 0.78087.  The surface current 
                               is tallied and each should have a score of 
                               around 1/5.
	11: Beams along a sphere - Same as 10 except instead of a plane, a 
                                   sphere is used.  Note that tallies in 10 and
                                   11 should be completely identical, and 
                                   they are.
	12: Beam grazing a surface - A beam is fired grazing a surface at an 
                                     angle.  Tallies check to see if neutrons
                                     transport through correctly.
	13: Beam traveling down a small vent surrounded by iron - The vent is 
                                            the intersetion of two cylinders.

		NOTE: That the problem was run with two different nps values.  
		      The 5E8 nps value was to reduce the statistical errors of
                      the tallies and the 5E6 nps value is used to reduce run 
                      time for testing purposes and is the default nps value.

 14: 3x3x3 Pu array of cylinders - 9 pillars with 3 cylinders each are on top 
	                                      of a table and keff is calculated.  This
																																							can be compared to an experimental
																																							benchmark.

	15: 3 uranium cylinders - A solution of UO2F2 and water are in three aluminum
	                              cylinders that are arranged in an equilateral
																															triangle. Keff is calculated.


UPDATING:
	If DAGMC is updated then the suite will have to be run again and the 
        ref.dag.out, ref.dag.mctal, and ref.geom.h5m file will have to be
	replaced for every case where the answers changed significantly as
        well as the result spreadsheet.

ADDING A CASE:
	This is done by creating a directory in the cases directory with a 8 
        files mentioned above.  The wiki page, result spreadsheet and
								this README file should be updated appropiately as well.

	Test cases that are to run by default should be given numeric names.
	A test case that does not have a digit at the end of its directory 
	name is considered to be "extra" and will only run if test_suite is 
	passed the -x flag.  By convention, extra test cases should have the 
	name of their base test case followed by a number, e.g. 05a and 05b.  


